Reinforcement learning is
a problem formulation for
sequential decision
making under uncertainty.
Earlier, we learned that
the agent's role in
this interaction is to choose
an action on each time step.
The choice of action has
an immediate impact on
both the immediate reward,
and the next state.
In this video, we will
describe policies.
How an agent selects
these actions.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to;
recognize that a policy is
a distribution over
actions for each state,
describe the similarities
and differences
between stochastic and
deterministic policies,
and generate valid policies for
a given MDP or Markup
Decision Process.
In the simplest case, a policy
maps each state to
a single action.
This kind of policy is called
the deterministic policy.
We will use the fancy Greek
letter Pi to denote a policy.
Pi of S represents the action
selected in state S
by the policy Pi.
In this example, Pi
selects the action A1 in
state S0 and action A0
in states S1 and S2.
We can visualize a deterministic
policy with a table.
Each row describes the action
chosen by Pi in each state.
Notice that the agent can select
the same action in
multiple states,
and some actions might not
be selected in any state.
Consider the example
shown here where
an agent moves towards
its house on a grid.
The states correspond to
the locations on the grid.
The actions move the agent up,
down, left, and right.
The arrows describe
one possible policy,
which moves the agent
towards its house.
Each arrow tells the agent
which direction to
move in each state.
In general, a policy assigns
probabilities to
each action in each state.
We use the notation
Pi of A given S,
to represent the
probability of selecting
action A in a state S.
A stochastic policy is one where
multiple actions may be
selected with
non-zero probability.
Here we show
the distribution over
actions for state S0
according to Pi.
Remember that Pi specifies
a separate distribution over
actions for each state.
So we have to follow
some basic rules.
The sum over
all action probabilities
must be one for each state,
and each action probability
must be non-negative.
Let's look at another state, S1.
Pi in S1 corresponds to
a completely different
distribution over actions.
In this example, the set of
available actions is
the same in each state.
But in general, this set can
be different in each state.
Most of the time we won't
need this extra generality,
but it's important nonetheless.
Let's go back to
our house example.
A stochastic policy
might choose up
or right with equal probability
in the bottom row.
Notice the stochastic policy will
take the same number of steps to
reach the house as
the deterministic policy
we discussed before.
Previously we discussed
how a stochastic policy,
like Epsilon greedy, can
be useful for exploration.
The same kind of
exploration-exploitation
trade-off exists in MDPs.
Let's talk more about that later.
It's important that
policies depend
only on the current state,
not on other things like
time or previous states.
The state defines
all the information
used to select
the current action.
In this MDP, we can define
a policy that chooses to
go either left or right
with equal probability.
We might also want
to define a policy
that chooses the opposite
of what it did last,
alternating between
left and right actions.
However, that would not be
a valid policy because this is
conditional on the last action.
That means the action depends
on something other
than the state.
It is better to think of this
as a requirement on the state,
not a limitation on the agent.
In MDPs, we assume that the state
includes all the information
required for decision-making.
If alternating between left and
right would yield
a higher return,
then the last action should
be included in the state.
That's it for this video.
The most important things
to remember are; one,
an agent's behavior is
specified by a policy that maps
the state to a probability
distribution over actions,
and two, the policy can depend
only on the current state,
and not other things like time or
previous states.
See you next time.